# Recidivism-Forcasting
Data description:
The Challenge uses data on roughly 26,000 individuals from the State of Georgia released from Georgia prisons on discretionary parole to the custody of the Georgia Department of Community Supervision (GDCS) for the purpose of post-incarceration supervision between January 1, 2013 and December 31, 2015. This dataset is split into two sets, training and test. We used a 70/30 split, indicating that 70% of the data is in the training dataset and 30% in the test dataset. The training dataset includes the four dichotomous dependent variables measuring if an individual recidivated in the three-year follow-up period (yes/no) as well as recidivated by time period (year 1, year 2, or year 3). Recidivism is measured as an arrest for a new felony or misdemeanor crime within three years of the supervision start date. The test dataset does not include the four dependent variables. The initial test dataset will include all individuals selected in the 30% test dataset. After the first Challenge period (forecasting the probability individuals recidivated year 1) concludes, a second test dataset will be released containing only those individuals that did not recidivate year 1. The same will be done after the second Challenge period. It should also be noted that the test dataset will contain variables that describe supervision activities, such as drug testing and employment. These data will not appear in the test dataset until the second Challenge period (i.e., year 2 dataset). We believe this is more reflective of practice where activities must accrue and correctional oficers must become aware prior to a recidivism event. The additional data released at the second Challenge period will not change at the third Challenge period release (i.e., year 3 dataset); they are measures of supervision activities during the entire time people were under supervision or until the date of recidivism for those arrested. The only thing that changes with the third Challenge period release is the removal of those individuals that did recidivate in year 2.
Data Source:
Both the GDCS and the Georgia Bureau of Investigation provided data.
